# Deep Dive: Transactions

_This chapter will formally define the term Bitcoin transaction._

Following the UTXO deep dive, I would like to clarify that UTXOs are not the transactions themselves. They are the inputs and outputs of a transaction.

**Breaking Down The Components of A Transaction**

> ```
> "txid": "8e7cf6b752bd7a33c95dc3b581b1bf0b325353855190b0e8e4e790486687e0ed",
> ```
>
> ```
> "version": 1,
>
> "locktime": 0,
> ```

**Transaction ID**

The txid is the unique identifier for a transaction. It is generated by hashing all of the other components in the transaction

_**Version Number: **_

Bitcoin is an evolving software, updates are made and new features are added. Remembering the elected person in the \_overview of Bitcoin, \_when verifying transactions, he needs to know whether there have been changes to the format of the transaction and whether new features have been added. This version number informs him of such details, as version one transactions follow certain rules.

**Locktime:**

The locktime is a feature which allows you to specify the earliest time, the elected person should include this transaction into the block. For example, if you specify that this transaction must only be included into the database on Monday 5th March 2019, then this transaction will sit inside of the unconfirmed transactions list, until that time. _Please note that the format for the date is unix. As we have not covered blocks as of yet. We will mention block locktime in a later chapter._

> "vin": \[
>
> ```
> {
>
>     "txid": "40d9b71aecc36b2a276372702fbb9e6b31b259c67c183afec036e3b45052acf1",
>
>     "vout": 0,
>
>     "scriptSig":
>
>     {
>
>         "asm": "30440220561688bbd95013a817274f399fd7476f965f805904b886ac2cc2c291d883beed02201aa9467404c3dec4702468eee9c7bfe7940ea9531a8e5158b162ab5b705a6d22\[ALL\] 0399145f0981fcfefc8424b7730a71aa168b0b33389a88fb732257517c318c7ca5",
>
>         "hex": "4730440220561688bbd95013a817274f399fd7476f965f805904b886ac2cc2c291d883beed02201aa9467404c3dec4702468eee9c7bfe7940ea9531a8e5158b162ab5b705a6d2201210399145f0981fcfefc8424b7730a71aa168b0b33389a88fb732257517c318c7ca5"
>
>     }
> }]
> ```

**VIN**

Remembering what we discussed in the UTXO chapter, VIN can be seen to be the individual notes, the **unspent transaction outputs that will become inputs for this transaction. **In the above example, we have one, it is possible to have multiple inputs.

**VIN: TXID**

In the UTXO chapter, we also discussed the concept of an input coming from another output, which is why it is named unspent transaction output. This transaction id, tells you the id for the transaction where this input was an output. In other words, If Alice is paying Bob and Charlie a combined amount of 5BTC. This transaction id, tells us which previous transaction Alice got the 5 BTC from.

**VIN : VOUT**

Now that we know what transaction Alice got this 5 BTC from. Vout tells you what position it is in the list of outputs. Remember, that if Alice wants to send 5BTC to Bob and to Charlie. This transaction will have multiple outputs. The first one being Bobs and the second being Charlies. Since Bob's transaction is first in the list, we say that his position is zero. Charlie's vout would be one. The reason we have the TxId and the vout is so that it is easier for someone to verify the transactions.

**VIN : ScriptSig**

We have not gone into detail on scripts. What you need to know right now, is that **script signature** \(**scriptSig**\) is the field that a person uses to prove that they are who they say they are.

_The 'VIN:Sequence' field has been omitted and will be covered in a separate module._

> "vout": \[
>
> ```
> {
>
>     "value": "0.31637000",
>
>     "n": 0,
>
>     "scriptPubKey":
>
>     {
>
>         "hex": "76a91401c801d8687ab1c05c23bb8cd8110203072a29e688ac",
>
>         "asm": "OP\_DUP OP\_HASH160 01c801d8687ab1c05c23bb8cd8110203072a29e6 OP\_EQUALVERIFY OP\_CHECKSIG",
>
>         "addresses": \["1ARGwJhKursys5K4M6zgyDKcH6inAJ3oR"\]
>
>     }
>
> }]
> ```

**VOUT**

Vout can be seen as the array of outputs for this transaction.

**VOUT : VALUE**

This is the amount you wish to send.

**VOUT : N**

This is the position of this particular output in the list of outputs. Remember that you can send to multiple people in one transaction

**VOUT : SCRIPTPUBKEY**

We have not gone into detail on scripts. What you need to know right now, is that ScriptPubKey specifies who the amount is being sent to.

